Rewrite the Azure Web PubSub content (#2781)
dotnet/docs-aspire: docs/messaging/azure-web-pubsub-integration.md

### [.NET CLI](#tab/dotnet-cli)

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Aspire.Hosting.Azure.WebPubSub
```

### [PackageReference](#tab/package-reference)

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Aspire.Hosting.Azure.WebPubSub"
                  Version="*" />
```

---

For more information, see [dotnet add package](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-add-package) or [Manage package dependencies in .NET applications](/dotnet/core/tools/dependencies).

### Add an Azure Web PubSub resource

To add an Azure Web PubSub resource to your app host project, call the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.AzureWebPubSubExtensions.AddAzureWebPubSub*> method providing a name:

```csharp
var builder = DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

var webPubSub = builder.AddAzureWebPubSub("web-pubsub");

builder.AddProject<Projects.ExampleProject>()
       .WithReference(webPubSub);

// After adding all resources, run the app...
```

The preceding code adds an Azure Web PubSub resource named `web-pubsub` to the app host project. The <xref:Aspire.Hosting.ResourceBuilderExtensions.WithReference*> method passes the connection information to the `ExampleProject` project.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > When you call `AddAzureWebPubSub`, it implicitly calls <xref:Aspire.Hosting.AzureProvisionerExtensions.AddAzureProvisioning(Aspire.Hosting.IDistributedApplicationBuilder)>—which adds support for generating Azure resources dynamically during app startup. The app must configure the appropriate subscription and location. For more information, see [Local provisioning: Configuration](../azure/local-provisioning.md#configuration).

Author: On occasion, I like to use them [in place of a comma](https://www.merriam-webster.com/grammar/em-dash-en-dash-how-to-use).

> em dashes set off extra information, such as examples, explanatory or descriptive phrases.

```csharp
var builder = DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

var worker = builder.AddProject<Projects.WorkerService>("worker")
                    .WithExternalHttpEndpoints();

var webPubSub = builder.AddAzureWebPubSub("web-pubsub");
var messagesHub = webPubSub.AddHub("messages");

// After adding all resources, run the app...
```

The preceding code adds an Azure Web PubSub hub resource named `messages`, which enables the addition of event handlers. To add an event handler, call the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.AzureWebPubSubExtensions.AddEventHandler*>:

```csharp
var builder = DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

var worker = builder.AddProject<Projects.WorkerService>("worker")
                    .WithExternalHttpEndpoints();

var webPubSub = builder.AddAzureWebPubSub("web-pubsub");
var messagesHub = webPubSub.AddHub("messages");

messagesHub.AddEventHandler(
    $"{worker.GetEndpoint("https")}/eventhandler/",
    systemEvents: ["connected"]);

// After adding all resources, run the app...
```

> The preceding code adds a worker service project named `worker` with an external HTTP endpoint. The hub named `messages` resource is added to the `web-pubsub` resource, and an event handler is added to the `messagesHub` resource. The event handler URL is set to the worker service's external HTTP endpoint. For more information, see [Azure Web PubSub event handlers](/azure/azure-web-pubsub/howto-develop-eventhandler).

Author: Yes, it's an `IResourceBuilder<AzureWebPubSubHubResource>`. This type is required to add event handlers.

:::code language="bicep" source="../snippets/azure/AppHost/web-pubsub.module.bicep":::

The preceding Bicep is a module that provisions an Azure Web PubSub resource with the following defaults:

- `location`: The location of the resource group.
- `sku`: The SKU of the Web PubSub resource, defaults to `Free_F1`.
- `principalId`: The principal ID of the Web PubSub resource.
- `principalType`: The principal type of the Web PubSub resource.
- `messages_url_0`: The URL of the event handler for the `messages` hub.
- `messages`: The name of the hub resource.
- `web_pubsub`: The name of the Web PubSub resource.
- `web_pubsub_WebPubSubServiceOwner`: The role assignment for the Web PubSub resource owner. For more information, see [Azure Web PubSub Service Owner](/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles/web-and-mobile#web-pubsub-service-owner).
- `endpoint`: The endpoint of the Web PubSub resource.

> The generated Bicep is a starting point and can be customized to meet your specific requirements.

Author: I rewrote this section.

:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/azure/AppHost/Program.ConfigureWebPubSubInfra.cs" id="configure":::

The preceding code:

- Chains a call to the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.AzureProvisioningResourceExtensions.ConfigureInfrastructure*> API:
  - The `infra` parameter is an instance of the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.Azure.AzureResourceInfrastructure> type.
  - The provisionable resources are retrieved by calling the <xref:Azure.Provisioning.Infrastructure.GetProvisionableResources> method.
  - The single <xref:Azure.Provisioning.WebPubSub.WebPubSubService> resource is retrieved.
  - The <xref:Azure.Provisioning.WebPubSub.WebPubSubService.Sku?displayProperty=nameWithType> object has its name and capacity properties set to `Standard_S1` and `5`, respectively.
  - A tag is added to the Web PubSub resource with a key of `ExampleKey` and a value of `Example value`.

> There are many more configuration options available to customize the Web PubSub resource resource. For more information, see <xref:Azure.Provisioning.WebPubSub>. For more information, see [`Azure.Provisioning` customization](../azure/integrations-overview.md#azureprovisioning-customization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many more configuration options available to customize the Web PubSub resource. For more information, see <xref:Azure.Provisioning.WebPubSub>. For more information, see [`Azure.Provisioning` customization](../azure/integrations-overview.md#azureprovisioning-customization).
```

:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/azure/AppHost/Program.ConfigureWebPubSubInfra.cs" id="configure":::

The preceding code:

- Chains a call to the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.AzureProvisioningResourceExtensions.ConfigureInfrastructure*> API:
  - The `infra` parameter is an instance of the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.Azure.AzureResourceInfrastructure> type.
  - The provisionable resources are retrieved by calling the <xref:Azure.Provisioning.Infrastructure.GetProvisionableResources> method.
  - The single <xref:Azure.Provisioning.WebPubSub.WebPubSubService> resource is retrieved.

>   - The <xref:Azure.Provisioning.WebPubSub.WebPubSubService.Sku?displayProperty=nameWithType> object has its name and capacity properties set to `Standard_S5` and `5`, respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The <xref:Azure.Provisioning.WebPubSub.WebPubSubService.Sku?displayProperty=nameWithType> object has its name and capacity properties set to `Standard_S1` and `5`, respectively.
```

  - A tag is added to the Web PubSub resource with a key of `ExampleKey` and a value of `Example value`.

> There are many more configuration options available to customize the Web PubSub resource resource. For more information, see <xref:Azure.Provisioning.PostgreSql>. For more information, see [`Azure.Provisioning` customization](../azure/integrations-overview.md#azureprovisioning-customization).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are many more configuration options available to customize the Web PubSub resource resource. For more information, see <xref:Azure.Provisioning.WebPubSub>. For more information, see [`Azure.Provisioning` customization](../azure/integrations-overview.md#azureprovisioning-customization).
```

```csharp
var builder = DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

var webPubSub = builder.ExecutionContext.IsPublishMode
    ? builder.AddAzureWebPubSub("web-pubsub")
    : builder.AddConnectionString("web-pubsub");

builder.AddProject<Projects.ExampleProject>()
       .WithReference(webPubSub);

// After adding all resources, run the app...
```

[!INCLUDE [connection-strings-alert](../includes/connection-strings-alert.md)]

The connection string is configured in the app host's configuration, typically under User Secrets, under the `ConnectionStrings` section:

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "web-pubsub": "https://{account_name}.webpubsub.azure.com"
  }
}
```

For more information, see [Add existing Azure resources with connection strings](../azure/integrations-overview.md#add-existing-azure-resources-with-connection-strings).

> ## Client integration

Reviewer 2: How about ServiceClient? In WebPubSub world, there is also a real "client" role which is the WebPubSub clients. Here I believe it talks about the "server" side. Using `client` might lead to confusion here. Same concern applies to below sections.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bcf17b1b-4a5b-455f-b950-49a9bdfa249a)

Reviewer: ➕1️⃣

> To get started with the .NET Aspire Azure Web PubSub client integration, install the [📦 Aspire.Azure.Messaging.WebPubSub](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Aspire.Azure.Messaging.WebPubSub) NuGet package in the client-consuming project, that is, the project for the application that uses the Web PubSub client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started with the .NET Aspire Azure Web PubSub service client integration, install the [📦 Aspire.Azure.Messaging.WebPubSub](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Aspire.Azure.Messaging.WebPubSub) NuGet package in the application.
```
